## oSC 2017 - Meeting with T. Hatch

### Meeting
  - Z-Bau on Friday, May 26, 2017.

### Members present:
  - Thomas Hatch
  - Joe Werner (joined a bit later)
  - Bo Maryniuk

### Members missing:
  - Dinca Mihai

### Topics discussed:
  - Ways for tighter collaboration between SaltStack and SUSE (Manager/Salt supporters) teams.
  - Explanation in details the design of Salt Enterprise architecture.
  - Sharing multi-master (ubermaster) scalability ideas. Feedback from T.Hatch on that.
  - Technical recap on Rate Limiting idea and feedback from T.Hatch on that.
  - Various minor technical parts clarification in Salt code, including:
    - The need of returner subsystem control (pluggable/configurable returners)
    - Queue of jobs in minions regarding (see bsc#1039056)

### Decided:
  - Clarify other alternatives for Rate Limiting on the upcoming Salt/SUSE sync-up meeting (done)
  - "Green light" on "ubermaster" idea to go upstream, even it quite clashes with the Salt Enterprise.
  - T.Hatch offered an idea to chat directly with the core Salt team at specific resource, access to which comes later. It could help to ask some quick questions directly. However timezone differs... (pending)

### Materials distributed at the meeting:
  None. 

### Follow-up meetings:
  
  - Usual sync-up meetings.
  - On the last meeting we were re-discussed Rate Limiting topic.
  - Chat topic is still pending.
